Notes From HTML Dog:
{

HTML is structured by tags <tag></tag>
usually they have end tags aswell although some tags close themselves ex <link/>...
Some tags have attributes, which provide more info. They are always inside the tag, after the tag name, and their values 
are in quotation marks
the <a> tag creates a link that opens a new window/tab. This isn't preferred because it hurts usability since
the  navigation is interrupted-back button isn't able to be used. Also, users don't want windows all over the place

colors are defined by :
    name, rgb (rrr,ggg,bbb), rgb(r%,g%,b%), hex-#FFEE11, hex-FE1 (shorter version of hex)
Different ways to define sizes and lenghts:
    em (calculated current font size), px (pixels), %, pt (points), other metrics (mm,cm,in)
Web page should not be static and users should be able to view page as they like it. 
    Recommended to use em and % rather than px because px is fixed and allows no variability
    
Font-family=actual font (times new roman, arial...)
    the font specified must be on the users computer, so should not use strange, obscure fonts
    it is possible to indicate multiple fonts too, seperated by commas. The first font indicated is the preferref font to use,
    and the second one is used if the first is not available and so on...
    for example, //font-color: arial, helvetica // is common because arial is found on most pc's but not helvetica, and 
    helvetica is found on most macs, but not arial
    if the font is multiple words, use quotations: "times new roman"
Other font font properties:  font-size, font-weight, font-decoration
font-size text such as headings should not be paragraphs with really arge font-use h1...tags, but just adjust font size to your needs
    be judicial with font size
font weight indicates whether the font is bold or not.
    ususally it works like//font-weight: bold or font-weight:normal
    the full possibilities are: lighter, 100,200,300..900, but browsers usually prefer just bold or normal
font style is italic or normal
font decoration means underine or not
    it can be none, overline, line-through, and underline
    usually shouldn't underline things since people expect underlined words to be links, and this property is normally used
    to decorate links-ex, saying font-decoration: none, to make links not underlined.
text-transform will change the case of the font
    capitalize(first letter of each word capital), uppercase, lowercase, none
Text spacing: letter-spacing or word-spacing are used for space betweeen the text. Their values can be a lenght or 'normal'
    line-height sets the height of the lines without affecting font. It can bea number(which is a multiple of font size), a length, a percentage, or normal
    text-align can be right,center,left,justify
    text-indent specifies the first line of paragraphs, to the specified length or percent.    

The box method consists of the margin,the border, the padding, and the element.
The individual settings of these properities for the four sides can be set like this: margin-top:....

span and div have no meanings. They are used to chunk html together, usually used in conjunction witih tags and classes
a span is in line-while a div is block-line (line breaks around it)
meta tags are used for search engines
    There is one meta tag that can be used many times with different attributes (content, http-equiv, name)
    content-the meta dat itself, linked to name and/or http-equiv attribute
    name can be author, keywords, and description. Descriptin is used by search engines to display apreview of web page in results
    the http-equiv attribute is used instead of name, and makes an http header...the content attribute cna be content-type. expire,refresh (how often the page automatically refreshes), or set-cookie
nowadays, however, search engines just used the content on the web page itself to search so meta tags are less and less relevant
th-header cell in tables.
colspan for td tags will span the cell over multiple colomns
row-span will merge the cell over multiple rows.
when using either of these tags, make sure to delete the extra cell that will be consumed
dl element is the alternative to ul for definition lists
dt-the term. There can be multiple dt's for one definitoin
after the dt, there is a dd, which is the definition. There can be multiple dd's if multiple definitions
Javascript events can be used like attributes in htmls tags. 
There are many events 
the following tags should be avoided (b, i, big, small, hr)
Use instead (font-weight:bold/strong,em/font-weight:italic, h1/h2font-size, font-size, border-top/image )
Never use these tags (center, text-align, menu, layer, blink, marquee, font)
attributes to not use (name, text, bgcolor, background, link, alink, vlink, align, target)


a class selector is a name preceded by a full stop (.) and an id selector is a hash (#)
html refers to the css by id and class attributes.
ID is used to identify one element, but a class can be used to identify many
You can also apply a selector to a specific html element by just stating the html selector first (p.jam{..})
Grouping:
    if there are multiple selectors with the same properties, you can group them with commas
    
Nesting: 
    nesting allows less Id's and classes. You can specify properties to selectors with selectors
    ex:
        #top{...}
        #top h1{...
        #top p {...}
We the selectors are separated by spaces
"Pseudo classes are bolted on to selectors to specify a state or relation 
to the selector. They take the form of selector:pseudo class { property: value; },
 simply with a colon in between the selector and the pseudo class." (htmldog)
There are four pseudo classes that relate to links which are used by all browsers
link-unvisited link
visited-for a link that has already been visited
active-for a link when it is gains focus ex. it is clicked
hover-for when the cursor is held over it
it is good practice to make visited links of different colors
the standard was that blue was unvisited, purple was visited, however,
this does not have to be so anymore, aslong as users can distinguish between visited and unvisied
 margin,padding, and border-width allow one to combine the top/right/left/bottom
border-width, border-color, and border-style can be put together too
by stating just two values (margin: 1em 10em)-the first is top/bottom and the second is left/right
font related properties can also be combined (font: italic bold 1em/1.5 courier);
Many properties involved manipulating background images
the background property can combine all of them
    background: white url(http://www.htmldog.com/images/bg.gif) no-repeat top right;
this is the combination of background-color
background image-locaiton of the image itself
background-repeat, which is how the image repeats itself. This can be repeat, repeat-y, repeatx, or no-repeat
background-position, which can be top,center,bottom,left,right, or any combination
Background images can be used for many elements, not just the whole page, and can create cool effects like shaped corners
    dont' get carried away, and remember that text needs to be readable
    Use background images where there is no content on the top or make them light.

Seperation between meaning and presentation:
    htmls is not for presentation-only for meaning
    CSS is for styling
    This decreases file sizes, increases flexibility, and makes pages more accessible
    Also-use tags with meaning-h1 and h2 for headers...
    Tables should not be used for layout-they are for tabular data. 
Tags
all tags should be lowercase and must be closed
tags that do not have closing tags should close themselves (<br />)
The markup must be well formed nad elements properly nested
All documents must have a document type declaration

Attributes
must be lowercase and their values in quotation marks
minimized attributes are not allowed (<input type ="checkbox" checked/>)
The minimized attribute must be given the value that is the same name as the attribute 
(<input type ="checkbox" checked="checked"/>)
The name attribute should be replaced by id, there is no target and the alt attribute in img tag is compulsory

Accessibility
make the page accessible to people with disabilities

Accessible Links
Tabbing: users should be able to tab properly if they don't have a pointing device. Thus, tab order should be in a logical order. the 
     tabindex attribute can be used to set tab order. If html is linear, however, this should fall into place
Accesskeys: assignn keyboard shortcuts to links. Should use them only for main, navigation links. Usually gain focus when pressing alt or ctr
    <a href="somepage.html" accesskey="s">Some page</a>
    THe problem is users cant figure out they exist unless looking at html. Some screen readers read out the access key. Other options are to have a page
    that explains accessibility features of the site
    Also, some people choose to underline the first letter of the word that corresponds to the access key.



        

}


Notes from Idiots Guide to Time Management{
Part 1: The Big Clock is Ticking:
    Ch. 1.1 The Overtime Epidemic: How to Nip It in the Bud{
        Have a smaller work day-a lot of the day is inefficient and unused. 
    }
    
    Ch. 1.2 Strategies for Survival{
        Dynamic Bargain: an agreement that you make with yourself to assess what yo've accomplished and what you more you 
        want to accomplish from time to time throughout the day, adjusting to new conditions as they emerge. 
            -ex: what would it take for me to feel good about ending work on time today?
        It is important to feel good about getting work done-if tasks are constantly added to your list, the sense of completion and 
        satisfaction will not occur-and that is very important.
        System of Self-reinforcement: A series of rewards that you enjoy as a natural outcome of particular behaviors.
    }
Limits and deadlines imposed on you often engender the most productive times. They can be used to propel/motivate you to get
work done if used properly. If used improperly, they can suffocate and slow and in extreme cases, paralyze your motion.
The biggest time waster for most people is entertainment. In past years, this used to be television. Now its a combination of 
television, phones, and the internet. When logged, you can see that these activities consume hours and hours of your life.
Even small segments of time each day can have the potential to be very powerful, productive periods
ex: instead of listening to the radio on the commute to work, you can plan for your day, read a book, use a cd to learn a language...
You may think that you have 5 minutes to kill while waiting for dinner to cook but in that time you could-clean for 5 minutes and then feel better the whole day...
There are always some things to do.
5 megarealities of today's working world:
    1. 'expanding volume of knowledge'
    2. 'Mass-media growth and electronic addiction'
    3. 'The paper-trail culture
    4. 'an overabudnance of choices'
    5. 'Population growth'
Strategy: divide and conquer
The information overload today is inevitable-it is impossible to keep up with everything. 
The only thing you can do is to decide what deserves your time and energy the most.
They key to winning back your time is to do less, not more. You have to decide what's vitally important to you.

You have to figure out ways to avoid time-locks such as making multiple trips for shopping, being productive in long waits at airports or for other people...
Figure out what is important to you. 
look at your priorities as often as you can-atleast one at a time.
You can't have too many priorities-othewise they can't they can't be priorities.

}